Note on how AI was used: The primary coding tool used was Claude Code, a CLAUDE.md file as well as PROJECT.md file was initially made with details on which coding principles to follow, what are the project requirements, how claude should assign tasks to its subagents etc. After making a proper outline and principle for the task, I explored some of the existing libraries, like Tesseract, PyMuPDF, MinerU, docling etc. I soon realized that reading texts from image or OCR in general is highly unforgiving, and there are currently no consistent open source Bangla OCR models. With all these in mind and a session with Claude chat, I converged on using Multimodel LLMs as my source of solution, and gemini 3.1 flash lite were quite generous with their free tier and it was multilingual as well. I tested the work first with sample prompts and realised that it was doable, however, I was getting inconsistent outputs. I consulted with claude and converged on using pydantic to ensure the structure remains the same always. Most of the sample prompts given to claude code were implementing specific tools or specific bugs I faced, like integrating gemini api, using pydantic, having a similarity scoring mechanism for extracted fields, stricter policies for numeral based fields. By nature LLMs are non deterministic, so I had to separately ask claude to implement strict rules based on similarity scores to mitigate the dissimilarities while extracting as much as possible. Fuzzy scoring was claude's idea, and I refined it further asking claude to implement different scoring metrics for different fields, as 90% for address might mean punctuation errors, whereas for date of birth could mean month, date or even year changing (bigger magnitude). AI generated code was verified manually by rigorous testing accross different use cases and also setting up boundaries within claude code. Most of the code was left unchanged, except the verification layers like when to reject a field, when to reject parsing in general, how to verify the parsing is consistent etc. Due to verification steps, each query requires 3x more inference cost than normal. 